# Brainnest Front-End Training Week 3 JavaScript Assignment

This project is the Week 3 Assignment of the Brainnest Front-End Training. I've created a JavaScript-only ROCK PAPER SCISSORS game with HTML elements, no CSS styling and no DOM manipulation. Even so, the game interacts with the user in real time throught alerts, prompts and console messages. 

## How It Works

The player (the user) will be playing against the computer (the JavaScript algorithm). Prompts are used to collect the user selection in each round (input must be "ROCK" or "PAPER" or "SCISSORS"). Any necessary instructions are displayed with alerts, such as the game welcoming message or something like *"Your answer didn't contain your selection of ROUND 1. Please try again.* in case of player input validation errors.

The results of each round are displayed in the browser Console in real time. But there are no HTML or style elements and no DOM manipulation. So, before anything else, the player must open the browser Console. Instructions are displayed in alerts as it follows:

+ Press Ctrl + Shift + I (Windows/Linux)
+ Press Option + Command + I (MacOS) 
+ Click on the Console tab

Five rounds are played. The one who wins a round gets +1 point. The winner is the one with the highest score at the end of the five rounds. Both the computer and the player must select one of the options "ROCK", "PAPER" or "SCISSORS". To win a round, either the computer or the player must achieve one of the game rules. If both selections are equal, the round score is tied. The game rules are:

+ ROCK beats SCISSORS
+ SCISSORS beats PAPER
+ PAPER beats ROCK

The computer selection is generated by the algorithm and the player selection is typed in by him/her in the prompt window. The player input is validated before being accepted, that is, if the player inputs anything different from the one word indicating which is the selection from the three possible options, the algorithm requires the player to input the selection answer again. 

Example: the player typed in *"#####"* or *"0000"* or *"rock paper scissors"* or *"paper rock"*, and so on. That is not allowed. However, the selection answer may be case-insensitive, that is, the player is allowed type in capitalized and/or uncapitalized variations of each selection option, such as:

+ rOcK
+ PAPER
+ Scissors

If, by any means, the score ends tied, a new phase of the game begins: a round called **WINNER-TAKES-ALL**. In this decisive round, the player gets ONE chance against the computer and the winner takes ALL the rounds and wins the game. If the score is tied again, there are continuous WINNER-TAKES-ALL rounds until there is a winner.

At the end of the game, when there is a winner, the player is asked:  *Do you wanna play again? (Type in YES or NO)*. The anser "YES" or "NO" is also validated, the player must type in either "YES" or "NO", with no capitalization rquirements, if anything different from thos two options is typed in, the algorithm requires the player to answer again.

If the player chooses to play again, the broswer Console is cleared and the game restarts. If the player chooses not to play again, a simple goodbye message is displayed through an alert and the project credentials are displayed in the browser Console.

## Project Link

https://elisa-amaral.github.io/Brainnest-Front-End-Training-Week-3-JavaScript-Assignment/

## Technology Stack

+ HTML index file with nothing but the title tag and the script call
+ JavaScript (no DOM manipulation at all)
